# twitter-sexism

The goal of this project is to identify sexist content from Twitter and determine where, geographically, this content is most likely to originate from.Large amounts of textual data are continuously being generated by users of social media websites; these data contain information that could potentially be useful for predicting economic trends. However, it is not obvious which characteristics of such data would have predictive power – most online content is uninformative ``noise” as textual data is essentially an extremely high-dimensional feature set with most features having little predictive power. Machine learning presents a viable way to identify patterns (useful features) in data sets with such complicated features. In particular, a number of machine learning models have been developed to analyze the sentiment of text posted on social media. This project is a demonstration of how such models can be used to quantify sentiment and explore connections between online sentiment and real-world economic conditions. In particular, the question I investigate here is whether data from Twitter can be used to create a measure of sexism that correlates with gender economic inequality in U.S. states. Using a recurrent neural network and a set of approximately 4 million Twitter status updates (tweets), I was able to create a measure of sexist sentiment with significant variation from state to state; this sexism measure is correlated with various indicators of women's economic well-being.

See [this report](https://github.com/quevivasbien/twitter-sexism/blob/master/twitter_sexism.pdf) for more detailed information.


## Source of training data

The list tweets used to train the machine learning model used in this package comes from the following source:
- Waseem, Zeerak  and  Hovy, Dirk, "Hateful Symbols or Hateful People? Predictive Features for Hate Speech Detection on Twitter," *Proceedings of the NAACL Student Research Workshop*, June 2016. (See https://github.com/ZeerakW/hatespeech.)
